README.md, before:

# Remote Execution of Artisan commands

[![Latest Version on Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/paymeservice/remotisan.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/paymeservice/remotisan)
[![GitHub Tests Action Status](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/paymeservice/remotisan/run-tests?label=tests)](https://github.com/paymeservice/remotisan/actions?query=workflow%3Arun-tests+branch%3Amain)
[![GitHub Code Style Action Status](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/paymeservice/remotisan/Fix%20PHP%20code%20style%20issues?label=code%20style)](https://github.com/paymeservice/remotisan/actions?query=workflow%3A"Fix+PHP+code+style+issues"+branch%3Amain)
[![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/paymeservice/remotisan.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/paymeservice/remotisan)

The package allows you to execute artisan commands remotely, using HTTP, and receiving propagating output on the page.

**Your command execution won't run into server's MAX_EXECUTION_TIME**, allowing you to preserve original server configuration.

In general, the package could very well assist transitioning your project to CI/CD with auto-scaling, when supporters have no direct access to the server terminal.

## Installation

Use composer to install *Remotisan* to your Laravel project. php7.4+ is required.

```bash
composer require paymeservice/remotisan
```

You can publish the config file with:

```bash
php artisan vendor:publish --tag="remotisan-config"
```

Optionally, you can publish the views using. The views will be published into _**/resources/views/vendor/remotisan/**_ directory for your further adjustments.

```bash
php artisan vendor:publish --tag="remotisan-views"
```

## Configuration

- Remotisan allows you to customize default routes prefix, by adjusting **base_url_prefix** setting, do not forget to clear cached routes afterwards. 

- Add any command you wish to be exposed to *Remotisan* in config, by adjusting the following part.

Note: UserRoles class is NOT provided, for demonstration purpose only!
```php
[
    "commands" =>   [
        "allowed" => [ // command level ACL.
            "COMMAND_NAME"            => ["roles" => [UserRoles::TECH_SUPPORT]],
            "COMMAND_FOR_DEVOPS_ONLY" => ["roles" => [UserRoles::DEV_OPS]],
            "COMMAND_SHARED"          => ["roles" => [UserRoles::TECH_SUPPORT, UserRoles::DEV_OPS]]
        ]
    ]
]
```

Use roles to define who is allowed to execute the command.

### Setting ENV specific commands
You are able to configure environment specific commands by simply static json string in your .env file with name `REMOTISAN_ALLOWED_COMMANDS`.
```dotenv
REMOTISAN_ALLOWED_COMMANDS='{"artisanCommandName":{"roles":[]}, "artisanSecondCommand":{"roles":[]}}'
```

## Authentication
Inside your `AppServiceProvider::boot()` add calls to `\Remotisan::authWith($role, $callable)`.

Callable receive a `\Illuminate\Http\Request` instance and should return true if the request (probably by the user) matches the given role.

The roles **MUST** be matching to the roles you've defined in _Remotisan_ config.
```php
\Remotisan::authWith(UserRoles::TECH_SUPPORT, function(\Illuminate\Http\Request $request) {
    $user = $request->user('web');
    return $user && $user->isAllowed(UserPermissions::TECH_SUPPORT);
});

\Remotisan::authWith(UserRoles::DEV_OPS, function(\Illuminate\Http\Request $request) {
    $user = $request->user('web');
    return $user && $user->isAllowed(UserPermissions::DEV_OPS);
});
```

## User Identifier
User identifier is used for auditing job executions, implementer can use any parameter they confident with.
As well, have to implement you custom UserIdentifierGetter in AppServiceProvider

```php
        Remotisan::setUserIdentifierGetter(function (HttpRequest $request) {
            /** @var User|null $user */
            $user = $request->user("web");
            return $user ? $user->getDisplayName() : "Unknown";
        });
```

## Audit
Implementer have to run migrate after package installation, thus package will create its own history/audit table.
The audit table logs executions and allows the user to see who executed and what, as well as killing running processes. 
Audit table is MUST for the killing mechanism to work, as well as instance identifier we will cover in next section.

## Instance identifier
Since the application may run in a multi-instance environment with no direct access to servers, we have to identify instance the remotisan set at.
Implementer have to place the following command in post-install-cmd and post-update-cmd sections of composer.json.

```php
php artisan remotisan:register-instance
```
p.s. You can copy from package's composer.json

The server GUID is written into local file within laravel's storage on specific instance and later on used for killing jobs.

## Multi-instance requirements
In a multi-instance environment you MUST implement Audit, Instance Identifier, User Identifier sections.
As well, you would like to use Redis cache for proper communication between instances and process killer task.
In additional, you would like to create supervisor worker to run `php artisan remotisan:process-killer` in each instance.
### Technical details
The package sends kill signals into redis with its server identifier and the job's guid, later on the process-killer job picks them according to instance the killer runs at, and attempt to kill.
Before killing, the killer will write "PROCESS KILLED AT {DATETIME}" into the running job's log and kill it with `kill -9` aka SIG_KILL.
Before the kill, the job would ensure the process belongs to artisan with the command name and in case confirmed, would proceed with kill.

## Super User
To allow super user or a supervisor to kill ANY running job, you would like to state user_identifiers you use within remotisan config's section `super_users` which is array/list of super users.
Any super user stated in the list would be able to kill ANY running job.
ONLY Running jobs are killable.

## Happy jobbing, happy killing! :)

## Testing

```bash
composer test
```

## Changelog

Please see [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md) for more information on what has changed recently.

## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## Security Vulnerabilities

Please review [our security policy](../../security/policy) on how to report security vulnerabilities.

## Credits

- [kima](https://github.com/PayMeService)
- [All Contributors](../../contributors)

## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.

Commit message:

updated readme according to latest changes where we dropped the server registration command.

README.md, after:

# Remote Execution of Artisan commands

[![Latest Version on Packagist](https://img.shields.io/packagist/v/paymeservice/remotisan.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/paymeservice/remotisan)
[![GitHub Tests Action Status](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/paymeservice/remotisan/run-tests?label=tests)](https://github.com/paymeservice/remotisan/actions?query=workflow%3Arun-tests+branch%3Amain)
[![GitHub Code Style Action Status](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/paymeservice/remotisan/Fix%20PHP%20code%20style%20issues?label=code%20style)](https://github.com/paymeservice/remotisan/actions?query=workflow%3A"Fix+PHP+code+style+issues"+branch%3Amain)
[![Total Downloads](https://img.shields.io/packagist/dt/paymeservice/remotisan.svg?style=flat-square)](https://packagist.org/packages/paymeservice/remotisan)

The package allows you to execute artisan commands remotely, using HTTP, and receiving propagating output on the page.

**Your command execution won't run into server's MAX_EXECUTION_TIME**, allowing you to preserve original server configuration.

In general, the package could very well assist transitioning your project to CI/CD with auto-scaling, when supporters have no direct access to the server terminal.

## Installation

Use composer to install *Remotisan* to your Laravel project. php7.4+ is required.

```bash
composer require paymeservice/remotisan
```

You can publish the config file with:

```bash
php artisan vendor:publish --tag="remotisan-config"
```

Optionally, you can publish the views using. The views will be published into _**/resources/views/vendor/remotisan/**_ directory for your further adjustments.

```bash
php artisan vendor:publish --tag="remotisan-views"
```

## Configuration

- Remotisan allows you to customize default routes prefix, by adjusting **base_url_prefix** setting, do not forget to clear cached routes afterwards. 

- Add any command you wish to be exposed to *Remotisan* in config, by adjusting the following part.

Note: UserRoles class is NOT provided, for demonstration purpose only!
```php
[
    "commands" =>   [
        "allowed" => [ // command level ACL.
            "COMMAND_NAME"            => ["roles" => [UserRoles::TECH_SUPPORT]],
            "COMMAND_FOR_DEVOPS_ONLY" => ["roles" => [UserRoles::DEV_OPS]],
            "COMMAND_SHARED"          => ["roles" => [UserRoles::TECH_SUPPORT, UserRoles::DEV_OPS]]
        ]
    ]
]
```

Use roles to define who is allowed to execute the command.

### Setting ENV specific commands
You are able to configure environment specific commands by simply static json string in your .env file with name `REMOTISAN_ALLOWED_COMMANDS`.
```dotenv
REMOTISAN_ALLOWED_COMMANDS='{"artisanCommandName":{"roles":[]}, "artisanSecondCommand":{"roles":[]}}'
```

## Authentication
Inside your `AppServiceProvider::boot()` add calls to `\Remotisan::authWith($role, $callable)`.

Callable receive a `\Illuminate\Http\Request` instance and should return true if the request (probably by the user) matches the given role.

The roles **MUST** be matching to the roles you've defined in _Remotisan_ config.
```php
\Remotisan::authWith(UserRoles::TECH_SUPPORT, function(\Illuminate\Http\Request $request) {
    $user = $request->user('web');
    return $user && $user->isAllowed(UserPermissions::TECH_SUPPORT);
});

\Remotisan::authWith(UserRoles::DEV_OPS, function(\Illuminate\Http\Request $request) {
    $user = $request->user('web');
    return $user && $user->isAllowed(UserPermissions::DEV_OPS);
});
```

## User Identifier
User identifier is used for auditing job executions, implementer can use any parameter they confident with.
As well, have to implement you custom UserIdentifierGetter in AppServiceProvider

```php
        Remotisan::setUserIdentifierGetter(function (HttpRequest $request) {
            /** @var User|null $user */
            $user = $request->user("web");
            return $user ? $user->getDisplayName() : "Unknown";
        });
```

## Audit
Implementer have to run migrate after package installation, thus package will create its own history/audit table.
The audit table logs executions and allows the user to see who executed and what, as well as killing running processes. 
Audit table is MUST for the killing mechanism to work, as well as instance identifier we will cover in next section.

## Instance identifier
Since the application may run in a multi-instance environment with no direct ssh access to servers, we have to identify instance the remotisan set at.
The way it is done is automagically from the code, on the access to remotisan we tag the server with GUID. 

*NOTE: If the server had remotisan deployed, it is already tagged and won't be re-tagged, to continue work on existing killing list (if such already exist).* 

The server GUID is written into local file within laravel's storage on specific instance and later on used for killing jobs.

## Multi-instance requirements
In a multi-instance environment you MUST implement Audit, Instance Identifier, User Identifier sections.
As well, you would like to use Redis cache for proper communication between instances and process killer task.
In additional, you would like to create supervisor worker to run `php artisan remotisan:process-killer` in each instance.
### Technical details
The package sends kill signals into redis with its server identifier and the job's guid, later on the process-killer job picks them according to instance the killer runs at, and attempt to kill.
Before killing, the killer will write "PROCESS KILLED AT {DATETIME}" into the running job's log and kill it with `kill -9` aka SIG_KILL.
Before the kill, the job would ensure the process belongs to artisan with the command name and in case confirmed, would proceed with kill.

## Super User
To allow super user or a supervisor to kill ANY running job, you would like to state user_identifiers you use within remotisan config's section `super_users` which is array/list of super users.
Any super user stated in the list would be able to kill ANY running job.
ONLY Running jobs are killable.

## Happy jobbing, happy killing! :)

## Testing

```bash
composer test
```

## Changelog

Please see [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md) for more information on what has changed recently.

## Contributing

Please see [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

## Security Vulnerabilities

Please review [our security policy](../../security/policy) on how to report security vulnerabilities.

## Credits

- [kima](https://github.com/PayMeService)
- [All Contributors](../../contributors)

## License

The MIT License (MIT). Please see [License File](LICENSE.md) for more information.
